Eligibility for health care benefits for MassHealth, the Health Safety Net, and Children's Medical Security Plan
Learn about health care eligibility requirements for individuals and families including people with disabilities.
Log In to...
To find out if you're eligible, you must fill out an application. You can learn more about how to apply to MassHealth, the Health Safety Net, or the Children's Medical Security Plan or for seniors or those who need long-term-care. If you need completing the application, you can find assistance in your area. 

Basic requirements for coverage
Residency
You must be a resident of Massachusetts to get MassHealth or other health care benefits that are funded by the Commonwealth.

You meet residency requirements if:

You live in Massachusetts and either intend to reside in Massachusetts, with or without a fixed address, or have entered Massachusetts with a job commitment or seeking employment
You do not meet residency requirements for MassHealth ifyou are visiting Massachusetts:

For personal pleasure, such as for vacation, or
To receive medical care in a setting other than a nursing facility
Citizenship or immigration status
To get the most MassHealth, Health Safety Net, or Children's Medical Security Plan coverage, your citizenship or satisfactory immigration status must be verified.

MassHealth may conduct information matches with state and federal agencies. If you do not provide this information, you may be considered for fewer benefits.

If electronic sources are unable to verify your declared status, documentation may be requested from you.

For more details about U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Rules, see the Member Booklet for Health and Dental Coverage and Help Paying Costs.

Financial
You must be financially eligible to qualify for MassHealth, the Health Safety Net, or the Children's Medical Security Plan.

To determine if you meet the financial requirements, MassHealth will consider:

Your Modified Adjusted Gross Income, called MAGI
Who is in your household
For more information, see program financial guidelines for certain MassHealth applicants and members.

Additional Resources
Apply for MassHealth, the Health Safety Net, or the Children's Medical Security Plan 
Apply for MassHealth coverage for seniors and people of any age who need long-term-care services 
Eligibility for different types of coverage
MassHealth offers different types of coverage based on if you are:

A parent living with your children younger than 19 years of age
An adult caretaker relative living with children younger than 19 years of age to whom you are related by blood, adoption, or marriage
A spouse or former spouse of one of those relatives, and you are the primary caretaker of these children when neither parent is living in the home
Younger than 19 years of age
A young adult 19 or 20 years of age
An adult 21 through 64 years of age
Pregnant
Disabled
HIV-positive
A breast or cervical cancer patient
If this information does not apply to you, please read the information on eligibility for people age 65 and older and people who need long-term care services.

